---
title: ...but this world just won't let me...[OMORI 2/4]
tags: OMORI darkgrey
comments: true
---

in which the mc finally touches grass. 

<!--more-->

### this means everything. 

exiting, i wake up to someone knocking on the door...it's <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">KEL</span>! i actually had the option to choose whether i wanted to open the door or not, just like i did with <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">MARI</span> last night; since it was daytime i was sure they wouldn't throw another jumpscare at me. so yeah. the characters in the dream world are actual people in this game's "real life." <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">KEL</span> even mentions getting his brother <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">HERO</span> a gift since he's returning from college tomorrow. of course, there's the small change of <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">MARI</span> being dead and all that, but at least i know how three of the five friends are doing. 

as for the last two, the two of us find <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">BASIL</span> being bullied by a pink-haired punk in the park. confronting the bully, i get a closer look at her: long pink hair, light blue contacts, a *nail bat* (this was a mistake why did i confront), and...a hair bow? wait, that's <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">AUBREY</span>! what the hell happened to her? i fight her, fully expecting to get oneshot, but the game remembered something i didn't: <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SUNNY</span> has a knife; yesterday, when grabbing his midnight snack, he grabbed a steak knife to make some microwaved steak. she freaks out, and so does <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">KEL</span>, who takes his knife. this guy's been so detached, in his own dream reality for so long he even forgot that a knife's a lethal weapon...jeez. 

both <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">BASIL</span> and <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">AUBREY</span> run away, so it's up the two of us to confront her. we later find her...in the church? someone certainly wasn't in the pews during the "love your neighbor" sermon. we fight -- in the church -- and obviously lose since *she has a nail bat*, and are left completely confused. she yells something about how we're wrong to think of her as the big bully when we don't even know what <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">BASIL</span> did. 

following her out of church, we see her throw a photo album away. *wait.* if the dream world and real world matched up, <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">BASIL</span> would have a photo album, which means she took it from him. like what? everything's her fault up until this point; what could <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">BASIL</span> have possibly done? we head to his house for answers and to return his album, but end up eating dinner there instead. something's wrong with <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">BASIL</span>, though; when i try to talk to him during dinner, he's a nervous wreck, stuttering something about how i'm creepily looking at him; he then makes a run for the bathroom. confronting him in the bathroom, he says some eerie stuff:

You see it too, right?
{:.omori-greybox}

and a black void appears behind him, the same void that took him away in the dream world. i'm creeped out, and so does <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SUNNY</span>, who slams the door shut; trying to repoen the door results in him shaking his head. 

i then head home to sleep, but my whole home's covered in spiders. this time, i need to <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">CALM DOWN</span>, then i learn how to <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">FOCUS</span> to face this fear. it seems like i have to defeat a fear in real world in order to unlock a region in the dream world; i had to overcome my fear of heights before climbing a space ladder to <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">OTHERWORLD</span>, so i'm guessing i'm unlocking a kind of mirkwood/dark forest region next. 

---

okay can we talk about this? everything's *really* messed up. <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">KEL</span> seems fine, and so does <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">HERO</span>, so i can now be thankful i was wrong about this game being about sibling abuse. but whatever the hell happened to the other two? i know <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">BASIL</span> was a really important friend because he's the only one with green hair in the dream world compared to everyone's purple, but now he's a nervous wreck and won't even talk to me, and both him and i have black voids around us...what *did* we do? maybe we two pushed <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">MARI</span> over that metaphorical edge but if that were the case, why does <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">AUBREY</span> only blame him? speaking of her...yeah. the first thing i do in four years is *slash my childhood friend with a knife*. great start. 

four years surely is a long time, isn't it? spending a day outside hit me with the realization that <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SUNNY</span>'s been disconnected from reality for *four years*. two of his friends are in completely unrecoginizable states, <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">HERO</span>'s off in college, and soon he'll be older than his sister ever will be. 

and then there's <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">KEL</span>, who pretty much hasn't changed at all. but yeah -- now the difference between dream and real world is really starting to show. 

### lost memories

waking up in the dream world, one thing's immediately off: <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">AUBREY</span> is head-over-heels in love with <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">OMORI</span>, even suggesting that only the two of them go together, leaving the brothers to search for <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">BASIL</span>; thankfully older brother <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">HERO</span> shuts that one down. and now i'm just sad, because this means pretty much one thing: he had a crush (and maybe the opposite direction's true) on her when he was twelve, and that reality check shook him so much he's had to alter his fantasies of her to cope and block out how she is in the real world now. and also -- that means through everything, he's managed to keep a crush going for four years. that's insane -- for <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SUNNY</span>'s case, quite literally. 

and i was right -- you do adventure into a dark, spider-filled forest, where you have to face <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SPACEBOY</span>'s ex, <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SWEETHEART</span>. i despised this bossfight -- in her second phase, she becomes perma happy while one of her attacks makes my entire party angry, pretty much permanently giving her the emotional advantage for half the fight. and one of her other attacks deals 80% of everyone's healthbar because of her perma advantage! i died three times before finally taking her down. 

after beating her, the ground beneath her opens up in another black void, and i get the message: 

It's a long way down...Do you want to jump?
{:.omori-greybox}

after reaching the bottom, only <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">OMORI</span> is left; his three friends have gone somewhere else (probably back to that room immediately outside <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">WHITE SPACE</span> since it's pretty clear who controls the dream world at this point -- either <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">OMORI</span> or <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SUNNY</span>). it's a library, with the lights completely dark and cobwebs everywhere. there are seven books i can open, each containing a memory of the past. the names have been boxed out, but it's pretty clear who's who: if there are three boxes, it's <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">KEL</span>, if there's six it's <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">AUBREY</span>, and if there's only one, it's <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SUNNY</span>, since you can change his name. one of the memories is about him pretending to sleep on <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">AUBREY</span>'s shoulder on a trip back from the beach...so i was right. then, i collect a letter and get teleported back to <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">WHITE SPACE</span>. 

darn. no answers about what i did in the past, though. 


### hero ex machina

this time, <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">KEL</span> and i arrive in time to watch <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">BASIL</span> get bullied again. but this time, too frustrated to explain her side of the story to the two of us, she pushes him into the lake. i'm given the option to help <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">BASIL</span> or not. now, of course i'm going to help him, but i almost wanted to say no just to see what would happen but the decision was potentially too important (he dies) to justify it. and that's when i confront my third fear: fear of the water. this time, i learn to <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">PERSIST</span>. woohoo, <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SUNNY</span> trying to be healthy and learning to deal with his inner demons. he's made a lot of progress for just two days, honestly. 

in the end, though, it's <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">HERO</span> who comes to the rescue. the four of us leave <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">AUBREY</span> behind, though she tells us to wait. maybe she wants to tell us something, but at this point...actually *screw her*. she could've killed <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">BASIL</span>! even if it was done a moment of anger as a sort of "get away from me" gesture, i don't think that's not something she should be easily forgiven for. 

we drop the still-unconscious <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">BASIL</span> off at his house, eat dinner with <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">HERO</span>'s family, and then the two brothers head over for one final sleepover. i pull out the photo album that's now mine to show to them, but <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">HERO</span>'s not too happy: none of the pictures have <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">MARI</span> in them. 

---

*oh. i think i see how it is now.* that's what <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">BASIL</span> did -- either in grief or in anger, he got rid of all the <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">MARI</span> photos. no wonder <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">AUBREY</span>'s mad, but still, that leaves me with more questions than answers. why did he do it, and how did she find out? and if that's <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">BASIL</span>'s sin, how does that tie in with <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SUNNY</span>'s? 

### a last resort

...is where everyone went. this time in the dream world, none of my friends are there. the only option is to go up from the big tree stump, which i've never been to before (down is the playground, left is the dark forest, and right is the vast forest which leads to <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">OTHERWORLD</span>). there, i find <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">MARI</span>, and only her. she takes me to the beach, and the two of us swim across the lake to where our friends are. but when she says goodbye, she refers to me as <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SUNNY</span>, not <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">OMORI</span>. 

i meet <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">KEL</span>, who tells me that everyone's been tricked by <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">MR. JAWSUM</span> into signing contracts forcing them to work at the <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">LAST RESORT</span>, himself included. we get <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">AUBREY</span> back before the boss fight begins, but we need to fight him for <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">HERO</span>, and i feel like i'm way underleveled. so by the time we fight him, the three of us are level 25+ while <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">HERO</span>'s level 15. oops. together, the four of us also have to battle <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">PLUTO</span>, <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">JAWSUM</span>'s security man. yup. you went from fighting a shark to fighting a planet. may i remind you that this is a horror game. 

getting out of the resort, who do we meet? <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SWEETHEART</span>! we chase her into <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">HUMPHREY</span>, a giant whale, home to three <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SLIME GIRLS</span>, scientists who <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SWEETHEART</span>, in her endless narcissism, contracted to make the perfect version of herself. the thing is, she actually never had any money to pay up, so she puts the blame on us. 

fighting <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SLIME GIRLS</span> is...something else. they're anthropomorphic sea creatures -- an octopus, a squid, and a jellyfish -- *and they sure do look the part.* i look at them, and i wonder: if the dream world is based on the <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SUNNY</span>'s real world experiences, then he's surely been on some pretty nasty sites for the past four years. the irony is, <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">HUMPHREY</span> speaks in children's rhymes, so he's probably some character from a childhood story or tv show, and now here are some h-inspired creatures alongside with him -- sorta like the loss of childhood innocence. 

the fight itself was super easy; maybe i leveled up a bit too much. but then i get betrayed: <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">HUMPHREY</span>'s really hungry, and eats the <span style="font-family:OMORI_GAME_2;font-size:large;">SLIME GIRLS</span> and us, too. even though i was pretty leveled up, this fight honestly felt hopeless: he has so much hp, and in his third phase he eats everyone at the end of every turn. and when he eats, the music becomes more and more distorted, and the screen gets darker and darker. i honestly thought it was one of those scripted boss fights where you have to lose, but actually no -- the game just wants me to *feel* that way, as i eventually outlasted him. 

beating him gave me the final couple keys i needed to complete the hangman puzzle: 

WELCOME TO BLACK SPACE
{:.omori-greybox}

oh this is where the fun begins. 