---
title: i hate you. i love you.
tags: dark scp
comments: true
---

and you are at the center of everything that happens to me. 

<!--more-->

cw: horror and shock themes, some descriptions of gore

### some background, i guess

if you don't know what an scp is, start here; otherwise, skip a section down. 

the [scp](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/) universe is a fictional scientific database full of anomalous entities, ranging from [inanimate objects](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-2950) to [organisms](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-682) to [primordial gods](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-2317) to even the [literally indescribable](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-055). as you can tell by the myriad of `CLASSIFIED` and `[REDCATED]` and `[DATA EXPUNGED]` text throughout the site, this fictional database is supposed to contain some *top secret* stuff, as many of these anomalies could end our world many times over if they were to break loose. indeed, each entry is a small horror novel in and of itself. [zombie plagues](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-008), [shapeshifters](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-2950) capable of taking any form, the [demon king](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-2317), a creepy [old man](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-2950), the [christmas version](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-4666) of pennywise, [mind control viruses](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-3125) -- hell, even [voldemort's](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-2521) got his own entry on here. 

read through a few, and you'll find the the style's actually really repetitive: each entry starts out with its **item #**, as if these world enders are just numbers in a book. then there's an **object class**; there are three main ones: *safe*, *euclid*, and *keter*. *safe* entities are ones that you can lock up and put away -- for example, a nuke is safe cause if you lock it up in a secure enough box, it's, well, safe. *euclids* are a bit more unpredictable -- if you put them in a box, you don't know what they'll do -- for example, most anomalous humans are euclid because they have sentience and so can use their anomalous abilities in ways unpredictable to the foundation, which makes them harder to contain. and *keters* are the most difficult to contain -- one small misstep in containment procedures and all hell breaks loose. 

immediately following are the **special containment procedures**, describing the foundation's best methods and attempts at keeping this thing under control. the procedures are limited really only by the writer's imagination, but there's one constant throughout: the clinical, emotionless, scientific tone of the writing, no matter how horrific the contents described. 

here's a description of [satanic ritual sacrifices](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-2317), with proportions of blood and holy water described to 3 significant figures. this [recall protocol](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-106) treats humans with the same callous disregard as fishermen treat their bait. and while it's not explicitly written out, it's very clear that [procedure 110-montauk](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-231) is a wikihow article on how to perform the [worst act](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Child_sexual_abuse) known to humanity. horrific acts and thoughts are simply stated as fact, the same way you'd say the sky is blue; and anything so unspeakably horrific that even the author feels uncomfortable writing is `[DATA EXPUNGED]`. 

and that's why makes scp articles so scary: the worst thoughts i could think of are thrown around willy-nilly in these articles as if they were mundane, everyday occurrences. remember procedure 110-montauk? yeah, that's performed *every day*. in fact, the foundation periodically wipes her memory when she gets too numb to the pain and shock of the procedure -- this way, each performance of the procedure elicits maximum emotional response from her. 

it's a common meme among scp readers that "there is no ethics committee." i think it's pretty obvious why. 

ok and then after the containment procedures is the **description**, which is self-explanatory and is written in the same tone as the procedures. not much to talk about here -- it's a description of the anomaly. 

### i have ~~won~~. i have ~~lost~~. 

this is [scp-3999](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-3999). it's what the scp community refers to as a *format screw*. cause you know that nice **item #**, **object class**, **special containment procedures**, **description** format every scp follows? yeah, this one doesn't. 

> Let us go then, you and I
> When the Eleven-Day Empire eats the sky
> Like a humanoid melting like clams upon the breakfast table.

read the first three lines and it becomes immediately obvious -- scps aren't supposed to start out with the author's parody of [the love song of j. alfred prufrock](https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poetrymagazine/poems/44212/the-love-song-of-j-alfred-prufrock). 

> **Object Class:** Apollyon

*wait*. that's not a class we're used to. and indeed -- apollyon is a seldom-used class, meant to describe something uncontainable and world-ending (for example, [the sun being a deadly laser](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/shaggydredlocks-proposal)). using apollyon might already be considered format-screw in and of itself, due to the controversy of how overpowered that class is. 

> **Special Containment Procedures:** SCP-3999 cannot be contained at the present moment, and currently poses a ZK Class End-of-reality scenario. The most advisable course of action is for Researcher Talloran, believed to be the focal point of SCP-3999, to remove himself from contact with all Foundation sites and personnel to avoid further collateral damage to Foundation property. It is theorized that if Researcher Talloran is contained in an extremely secluded area, then the destructive capabilities of SCP-3999 will temporarily ~~cease~~
> 
> ~~stop~~
> 
> ~~be contained~~
> 
> ~~preserve some remnants~~

...and the special containment procedures are nonsensical? why is stuff ~~crossed out~~? that's not how scps are censored. and the procedures aren't even relevant to 3999 -- the first several paragraphs detail how to summarily execute researcher talloran, a researcher presumably assigned to 3999. indeed, 3999 seems to be affecting talloran in some way; it's not even clear who wrote the article at this point -- is it talloran, or the self-aware 3999? 

then, the containment procedures start to reference containment procedures for other scps. first, by containing it with [scp-2432](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-2432). well, that doesn't work, and 3999 melts talloran into goo. 

then, an excerpt from *harry potter*. then one of the beatles' *penny lane*. then one from [scp-2316](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-2316). 

then a play, with 3999 and talloran as the actors. the script follows talloran as he tries to escape from 3999, pleading to be let out. 

> Researcher Talloran frantically tried to run out the door, only to run into a wall of solid concrete where the exit to reality should be. Strangely, despite it only being a solid wall, he could recognize that it was a segment of some great pedestal, chipped by some eldritch sculptor in the Ionic fashion. He shook those thoughts out of his head. "So," he thought quickly, "I'm trapped in whatever this place is with this thing, and there's no outside reality anymore." He tried to wrap his head around what exactly "this thing" was, but he couldn't. It defied description. It was chaos itself.

and now it becomes apparent what researcher talloran's going through. 

> SCP-3999 is to be ~~contained~~

he's losing his sanity while stuck with 3999...

> SCP-3999 is to be ~~contained~~

...and all these nonsensical containment procedures are the different ways 3999 has tormented him. 

> SCP-3999 is to be ~~contained~~

he's slowly losing his grip on his previous reality...

> SCP-3999 is to be ~~contained~~

...because 3999 is more than just some [creepy old man](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-106), [unkillable angry lizard](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-682), or even a [powerful reality bender](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-4231). 

> SCP-3999 is to be ~~contained~~

in the scp universe, 3999 would be a thing hidden deep beneath the `[REDACTED]` and `[DATA EXPUNGED]`, beneath countless black boxes, deep behind security clearances, cognitohazards, and memetic kill agents. 

> SCP-3999 is to be ~~contained~~

talloran is stuck with a god. 

> SCP-3999 is to be contained by everything folding in itself.
> 
> SCP-3999 is to be contained by everything going wrong.

then talloran tries to fight back by trying to contain 3999 in an infinite [aristocrats](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Aristocrats) joke, doctor strange v. dormammu style. 

> A family walks into a talent agency. It's a father, mother, son, daughter and dog. The father says to the talent agent, "We have a really amazing act. You should represent us.”
> ...
> The agent says, "OK. OK. I'll take a look."
> 
> Researcher Talloran dresses himself in a top hat wearing a sign that says "Talent Agent" SCP-3999 dresses as the father and walks up to him and says "**[SYSTEM ERROR: DATA CORRUPTED. PLEASE SEE A NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR FOR MORE DETAILS]**"

but 3999 breaks out of that one too. 

> **Description:**
> 
> SCP-3999 is ~~everything that was wrong with the world~~
> 
> SCP-3999 is ~~lolcats~~
> 
> SCP-3999 is ~~you, reading this~~
> 
> SCP-3999 is ~~former Vice President of the United States Mike Pence~~
> 
> SCP-3999 is ~~food~~
> 
> SCP-3999 is ~~several moldy blankets~~
> 
> SCP-3999 is ~~Researcher Talloran's soul~~
> 
> SCP-3999 is ~~the GoI referred to as Nobody~~

and now it's truly gone. 

> **Special Containment Procedures:**

yes, that's right -- another round of special containment procedures, after the description. talloran tries one last time, using [2845](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-2845)'s procedures this time. 

> ~~Researcher Talloran's college roommate's pet is to be ritually sacrificed at a random location within Grand Teton National Park. The corpse's brains are then to be dashed against a rock and consumed with a hot buttery bowl of Popcorn and a refreshing Coca-Cola®. Please enjoy the show. Only at AMC Theatres. Only at SCP-3999. Only at Applebees. Only at Walmart. Only at Barnes & Noble. Only at Home Depot. Only at McDonalds. Only at Wawa. Only at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute. Only at your basement. Only at behind you. Only at Only. Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only Only~~

and fails again, being plunged right back down into insanity. 

> SCP-3999 poses a serious threat to normal reality and should be contained ~~in its own vomit.~~
> 
> Researcher Talloran ~~will~~ must submit to his own insecurities.
> 
> SCP-3999 is ~~not scary~~
> 
> All researchers are to ~~dislike SCP-3999 and like other SCP-3999s~~

and now, the article shifts. so far, the story's been told from talloran's point of view, and the torture he's been subjected to. now for the first time, *the author*, lordstonefish, shares his point of view. 

> Fuck, I hadn't worked on this in literally weeks.
> 
> So, you see, this started out as a story about things gradually disappearing, and gradually reality was blinking out one thing at a time. At first, Talloran would notice that no one around could remember certain researchers, then the country of Belgium, then a mug on his desk. ... Then the containment cell would vanish and the universe would wink out.

so that explains all the crossings-out -- it's writer's block. you know that feeling when you have to write something, but every time you write a few sentences you hate it, so you just delete it, then write something else, then delete that as well? those nonsensical, crossed-out containment procedures were the *author* trying to write the story of 3999 and talloran (who is lordstonefish's oc). 

> Finally, something happened to me.
> 
> At 1:00 in the morning on March 24, 2017, something happened to me. I woke from a light slumber to find I couldn't move at all, I could barely even open my eyes. I couldn't even breathe and found myself struggling to get the muscles working that would keep me alive. I laid there on my bed for what felt like hours and hours of pain, as my muscles began to cramp and twitch.
> 
> Then James Martin Talloran, Level 3 Researcher, rose up like the devil at the foot of my bed. 

ok now that is horrifying. i have sleep paralysis, and to be honest it's one of the few things i'm actually scared of. every time i have a paralysis episode, i think i'm going to die. i know most people with sleep paralysis speak of sleep paralysis demons that appear when they open their eyes, but i don't have any cause even my euelid muscles don't work -- i physically cannot open my eyes. (well, what happens when i get an episode where i have initially-opened eyes? i don't really know actually.) now, imagine your sleep paralysis demon is an scp...yeah. 

> Like a whistle beckoning dogs, this was a cue for all the terrors of the world to come pouring out of every nook and cranny to join Talloran there. It was all the nightmares I had spent a better part of a year immersed in. [Sliced presidents](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-1981), [unstoppable lizards](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-682), [clockwork people](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/church-of-the-broken-god-hub), [eye pods](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-131), [deer gods](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-2432), [moving statues](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-173), old men both [good](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-343) and [bad](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-106). All standing silently, a crowd of horror. 

so yeah. 3999 is the author, lordstonefish himself. this passage ends with talloran killing 3999/the author. 

> SCP-3999 has ~~won.~~
> 
> SCP-3999 has ~~lost.~~
> ...
> ...
> ...
> I hate myself
> I love myself
> ...
> ...
> ...

and then a "proper," in-format scp-3999 entry is given: 

> **Item #:** SCP-3999
> 
> **Object Class:** Neutralized
> 
> **Special Containment Procedures:** SCP-3999 was contained at Site 118 in an airtight Keter containment cell. Four armed guards were found stationed outside this containment cell. The interior of this containment cell consists of a kilometer long shaft into the earth, coated with acid resistant plates. Every 30 meters, the walls are lined with Scranton Reality Anchors, all of which appear to have violently exploded. There is little information concerning other containment procedures relating to SCP-3999.
> 
> **Description:** SCP-3999 was, apparently, a Keter class object, possibly an entity of some kind. It is currently unknown what other properties SCP-3999 might have had. SCP-3999's containment chamber was discovered during a routine inspection of all Keter class containment chambers at Site 118. RAISA has confirmed that no records of SCP-3999 exist within the database; all information concerning the nature of SCP-3999 has been determined based on the containment chamber's composition and recovered documentation from within. The four guards "assigned" to SCP-3999 were found to have significant memory loss, and could not determine how they got to SCP-3999.
> 
> At the bottom of SCP-3999's containment chamber, the corpse of Level 3 Researcher James Talloran was found. Researcher Talloran had disappeared almost directly following reassignment to Site 118. A Foundation-assigned cell phone was found on his body, containing only a piece of text resembling a containment procedure for SCP-3999, but with many stylistic deviations and nonsensical procedures as well as [REDACTED] information concerning the nature of the Foundation. From it, it has been determined that Researcher Talloran was assigned to SCP-3999, SCP-3999 had significant reality warping properties, it breached containment at some point and caused either a CK-class reality-restructuring event or a ZK-class end-of-reality event, and it was successfully terminated by Researcher Talloran at the cost of his own life, reversing said event.
> 
> **Addendum-1:** [DATA EXPUNGED]

### object class: explained

alright, at first, second, and even third glance, this is a very nonsensical scp. even from knowing that 3999 is the author, it's still a lot to unpack -- sure, the reason why stream of consciousness and strikethroughs are so commonplace is cause it's supposed to represent lordstonefish's writer's block, but that misses the point: *scp-3999 is **not** an scp about writer's block*. 

it's about saying goodbye. more specifically, scp-3999 is lordstonefish's [swan song](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swan_song) to the scp community. and to me, it's about wasted time, unfulfilled dedication, and endless effort for something that might've meant something in the past but may no longer mean much. 

alright, let's start from the top. 

in his prufrock parody, lordstonefish references the eleven-day empire. so, britain switched from the julian to gregorian calendars back in 1752, and as a result, their dates suddenly skipped forward 11 days, those days quite literally being lost time. so right from the get-go we see lordstonefish's feelings on the time he spent writing scps. 

all the references to different scps, and even to *harry potter* and *the aristocrats*, is his writer's block: he's trying to create a new scp by bounding off of old ones, but he just can't find the spark of creativity needed. it could also be a signal to how hard it can be to get an idea for an scp through the community. the most daunting task for new scp writers is often getting their idea approved, so if even accomplished writers like him struggle with inspiration, that's saying something isn't it. 

and for why it's so nonsensical and gorey and disgusting (there's a lot of brutally killing talloran and his family, if you haven't noticed), that's his parody of scp horror writing. the brutal killings he describes don't cause any real disgust in readers cause they're already desensitized to this kind of stuff, just like how lordstonefish is desensitized to scp horror writing, 